# Procurement-Inventory-Management-System
Project for Syracuse University's School of Information Studies course IST 659

## Background:

According to a research study of impact of Procurement systems on businesses, published on the online publication ‘TechRepublic’, it was found that a whopping 93% of procurement and supply chain systems are negatively impacted due to poor database management, mismatched and incorrect data between the people using the Procurement system, especially Suppliers. 67% of the business owners in this study, claimed that they incurred significant financial losses due to inconsistent supplier data. 58% of the business owners claimed they don’t believe the data about suppliers to be updated in a timely and transparent manner on the portal and companies spend on an average of 21 days to validate supplier data and integrate it into the procurement system.
From the above facts and figures, it is evident that there is a lack of a robust and transparent Procurement Management system. The key reason for this is poor data management. The major issue highlighted as per the study is that there is an inconsistency in supplier data and a lack of data transparency among the parties involved in the procurement process often tends to create confusion as the data is out of sync and not updated in different parts of the procurement inventory pipeline. Given the fact that for most industries efficient procurement of goods is essential to their functioning, faulty Procurement systems are a pressing problem, which is why we decided to present a proposed solution to this through our Procurement inventory management system.
Our database management system aims to provide a single, seamless and easy to use system to be used by all the people involved in the Procurement system. This would eliminate the data inconsistency issues between the different people using the system and relevant common information will be up to date and can be accessed by all parties involved to prevent confusion.
There are three categories of people that will be using this system:
* Stakeholders: This is the group of people that are going to place the orders to procure heavy duty goods.
* Employees: This is the group of people that are going to approve the orders that are placed by the Stakeholders
* Suppliers: This is the group of people that will be supplying the goods and managing the inventory of goods on ground
The Stakeholder places an order for the goods to be procured. This information is accessible to an individual person placing the order, his superiors and the team he is working on. The processing of the order is taken up by an Employee. After confirmation of the order, a purchase order is created and the details of the order line for that order are sent to the Supplier who is then tasked with confirming the availability of the product and supply it to the Stakeholder. The entities designed to aid this workflow are Products (consisting of unique Product IDs and Quantities), Payments (Credit Card or Bank Transfer), and Orders (containing specifics related to every order)
